Case 1
Case 1 – Professor Periwinkle

Data storage and preservation of access

Data will be stored in the selected cloud-based storage location and on the university site in the institutional physical repository. Both of these options are institutionally supported and will be free for researches, students and staff who work with or closely tied to the research that Dr. Periwinkles. The fact the storage methods are supported by the institution allow for increased data sharing internally. There was also the addition of data sharing protocol that was implemented to address the information sharing protocol for individuals in the research community that would like to access Dr. Periwinkles raw data. With the expansion of the data sharing protocol to deal with external researchers of the university, it can also be concluded that these individuals will have access to the cloud-based storage location via personalized login information. As for individuals who do not work in the university or haven’t been granted authorization to access raw data there is still the public facing OceanViewer.org. OceanViewer.org is open online platform for sharing oceans-related findings.


Case 2 - Professor Green

Long-term Storage and Data Management

Data storage and preservation of access

Currently Dr. Greens sentiment towards the data and research he is conducting is that it will be personally used by him to protect the hard work he completed on his own and to protect the sensitive personal information of patients. To comply with Dr. Greens wishes, it is suggested that he retain the only ability to access his research data for conducting work. Dr. Green should consider in future if he wishes to have his research validated by peers that the data be de identified and made available to select individuals in his field to replicate his work. 

For short term archiving purposes this data is on a automatic backup schedule and retained for the duration of the research on the dedicated Dalhousie University repository with strict access limited to Dr. Green. However, because of the sensitive nature of the data, we also suggest that Dr. Green backup the data and research daily on his master drive. Dr. Green  will also be responsible for preparing data for long‐term preservation and for updating information, along with de-identifying the data if he wished to share the results at the end of his 10 years. 

Budget 

The cost associated with the various aspects of the proposed data management plan for Dr. Greens are relatively small. Staff time has been allocated for the additional cost of transferring the files from their current storage locations (Drop Box, Google Docs) to Sharepoint. There is also the cost of maintenance and support of the system over 10 years and costing out a secure and portable encrypted Hardware.  Costs have been calculated and can be seen in Appendix C. In the future if Dr. Green would like to explore alternative cloud repositories outside of what is currently used at Dalhousie University, table 1 highlights two potential options. 
